README.md, before:

# vgmparse
A Python module for parsing [VGM (Video Game Music)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VGM_(file_format))
files. `.vgm` and `.vgz` (Gzip compressed) files are supported.

Currently, only version 1.50 of the VGM specification is supported.

## Installation
The `vgmparse` module can be installed directly from GitHub using `pip`:

```
sudo pip install -e git+https://github.com/cdodd/vgmparse.git#egg=vgmparse
```

## Usage
First import the `vgmparse` module:

```
>>> import vgmparse
```

### Opening a VGM File
Open a file in binary mode and pass the data to the `Parser` class:

```
>>> file_data = open('go_straight.vgm', 'rb').read()
>>> vgm_data = vgmparse.Parser(file_data)
```

### Read VGM Metadata
The VGM metadata is available as a `dict` in the `metadata` variable:

```
>>> vgm_data.metadata
{'ym2612_clock': 7670453, 'total_samples': 4609970, 'vgm_ident': 'Vgm ', 'vgm_data_offset': 12, 'eof_offset': 1110478, 'sn76489_clock': 3579545, 'ym2151_clock': 0, 'rate': 60, 'version': 336, 'loop_samples': 3951361, 'sn76489_feedback': 9, 'loop_offset': 50883, 'gd3_offset': 1110192, 'sn76489_shift_register_width': 16, 'ym2413_clock': 0}
```

### GD3 Data
GD3 data (track title, artist, etc) is available as a `dict` in the `gd3_data`
variable:

```
>>> vgm_data.gd3_data.keys()
['game_eng', 'artist_jap', 'console_jap', 'date', 'game_jap', 'title_jap', 'title_eng', 'notes', 'console_eng', 'vgm_creator', 'artist_eng']

>>> print vgm_data.gd3_data['title_eng']
Go Straight

>>> print vgm_data.gd3_data['artist_eng']
Yuzo Koshiro
```

### VGM Commands
The VGM commands are available as a `list` of `dict`s in the variable
`command_list`:

```
>>> vgm_data.command_list[:3]
[{'data': '(\x00', 'command': 'R'}, {'data': '(\x04', 'command': 'R'}, {'data': '(\x01', 'command': 'R'}]
```

If a command does not have have any data then `data` will be `None`. Commands
that have integer data (`0x61`, `0xe0`) are interpreted for you.

**Note:** `command_list` will not include any data block commands as the data
block is parsed out for you.

### Data Block
If a data block is present it is read into the `StringIO` variable
`data_block`. You can then seek within this as if it were a file:

```
>>> vgm_data.data_block.seek(0)
>>> vgm_data.data_block.read(5)
'\x00G\x00o\x00'
```

Commit message:

Add GD3 character encoding information to README.md

README.md, after:

# vgmparse
A Python module for parsing [VGM (Video Game Music)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VGM_(file_format))
files. `.vgm` and `.vgz` (Gzip compressed) files are supported.

Currently, only version 1.50 of the VGM specification is supported.

## Installation
The `vgmparse` module can be installed directly from GitHub using `pip`:

```
sudo pip install -e git+https://github.com/cdodd/vgmparse.git#egg=vgmparse
```

## Usage
First import the `vgmparse` module:

```
>>> import vgmparse
```

### Opening a VGM File
Open a file in binary mode and pass the data to the `Parser` class:

```
>>> file_data = open('go_straight.vgm', 'rb').read()
>>> vgm_data = vgmparse.Parser(file_data)
```

### Read VGM Metadata
The VGM metadata is available as a `dict` in the `metadata` variable:

```
>>> vgm_data.metadata
{'ym2612_clock': 7670453, 'total_samples': 4609970, 'vgm_ident': 'Vgm ', 'vgm_data_offset': 12, 'eof_offset': 1110478, 'sn76489_clock': 3579545, 'ym2151_clock': 0, 'rate': 60, 'version': 336, 'loop_samples': 3951361, 'sn76489_feedback': 9, 'loop_offset': 50883, 'gd3_offset': 1110192, 'sn76489_shift_register_width': 16, 'ym2413_clock': 0}
```

### GD3 Data
GD3 data (track title, artist, etc) is available as a `dict` in the `gd3_data`
variable:

```
>>> vgm_data.gd3_data.keys()
['game_eng', 'artist_jap', 'console_jap', 'date', 'game_jap', 'title_jap', 'title_eng', 'notes', 'console_eng', 'vgm_creator', 'artist_eng']

>>> print vgm_data.gd3_data['title_eng']
Go Straight

>>> print vgm_data.gd3_data['artist_eng']
Yuzo Koshiro
```

As per the [GD3 specification](http://www.smspower.org/uploads/Music/gd3spec100.txt?sid=03f36df3451132209c81c18cd231534f)
the GD3 data uses 2-byte character encoding, however the exact encoding is not
specified, leaving it up to the VGM creator. This modules does not attempt to
interpret the encoding, leaving the raw 2-byte encoding intact from the VGM
file.

### VGM Commands
The VGM commands are available as a `list` of `dict`s in the variable
`command_list`:

```
>>> vgm_data.command_list[:3]
[{'data': '(\x00', 'command': 'R'}, {'data': '(\x04', 'command': 'R'}, {'data': '(\x01', 'command': 'R'}]
```

If a command does not have have any data then `data` will be `None`. Commands
that have integer data (`0x61`, `0xe0`) are interpreted for you.

**Note:** `command_list` will not include any data block commands as the data
block is parsed out for you.

### Data Block
If a data block is present it is read into the `StringIO` variable
`data_block`. You can then seek within this as if it were a file:

```
>>> vgm_data.data_block.seek(0)
>>> vgm_data.data_block.read(5)
'\x00G\x00o\x00'
```
